Chen Sun is the head of the Wireless Network Research Department, Sony R&D Center, Beijing, 100027, China. He received the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, in 2005. From August 2004 to May 2008, he was a researcher at ATR Wave Engineering Laboratories, Japan working on adaptive beamforming and direction finding algorithms of parasitic array antennas as well as theoretical analysis of cooperative wireless networks. In June 2008, he joined the National Institute of Information and Communications Technology (NICT), Japan, as expert researcher working on distributed sensing and dynamic spectrum access in TV white space. Since then he has been contributing to IEEE 1900.6 standard, IEEE 802.11af standard and Wi-Fi Alliance specifications for Wi-Fi networks in TV white space. In 2012 he joined Sony China Research Laboratory where he is currently the head of Wireless Network Research Department. He served as the technical editor of the IEEE 1900.6 standard and received the IEEE Standard Association Award for his contribution in 2011. He also received the IEEE 802.11af Outstanding Contributions Award in 2012 and the IEEE-SA Standards Board acknowledges with appreciation to the development of IEEE1900.6a standard in March 2014. Currently he serves as the technical editor of the IEEE 802.19.1a task group. His research interests include cognitive radio, vehicle-to-everything technology, federated learning, and artificial intelligence in wireless networks. He is a Senior Member of IEEE.

He is the first inventor of 30 US granted patents, 16 EU granted patents, 20 granted Chinese patents, and 13 granted Japanese patents.
